# What is MicroGrad?

On a lighter note, MicroGrad is a miniature automatic differentiation engine created by Andrej Karpathy, one of the most groundbreaking engineers in modern deep learning and a major source of inspiration for my own pursuit of math and computer science. MicroGrad builds from several simple ideas and steadily evolves into an incredibly powerful mathematical framework that underlies most of modern AI.

The scaffolding of MicroGrad is what is known in deep learning as a computation graph. This is a directed graph used to represent mathematical operations as nodes and edges. What makes this structure especially powerful is its ability to store information at each node regarding its gradient with respect to the output (usually the loss function). By using the chain rule from calculus, MicroGrad is able to automatically update the gradient of each node, telling us which parameters must be tuned—and in which direction—in order to minimize the final output. This framework is extended to create larger mathematical structures like neurons, layers, and multi-layer perceptrons, allowing for the development of a scalar neural network entirely from scratch.

# What are my Next Steps?

Andrej has provided the conceptual core for any deep learning framework. However, MicroGrad only operates on scalar values, which makes the processing of complex or batched data incredibly slow. I spent a lot of time this week researching this problem because of how vital the transition to vectorized operations really is.

I initially wondered why batching data provided such a significant performance boost until I realized the mathematical power of matrix multiplication. I first developed a Python notebook recreating matrix multiplication, transposition, and the dot product from scratch to ensure I could still implement basic linear algebra. It was here that I recognized the similarities between matrix multiplication and the dot product—something that wasn't immediately obvious to me in school. I realized how the structure of a neuron resembles the dot product and how this can easily be expanded into higher dimensions via matrix multiplication. By turning Andrej's Value class into a Tensor class, I will have made major strides toward creating a much more powerful autograd engine than MicroGrad. From here, I will focus on the specifics of how the backward pass of a neural network operates in n-dimensions, rather than the scalar version I am familiar with.
